Web app cartography

    1. Color plays a significant role in the visualization of map data. What are some important considerations to keep in mind when choosing the appropriate color scheme for your map?
    To choose the appropriate color scheme for my map, factors to consider are to not use a red-green color scheme, the meaning of the colors used for your map audience, and what observations you want to convey through your data classification.

    2. Why might you want to avoid using a rainbow color scheme?
    A rainbow color scheme is too distracting for the map user and takes away from the main purpose of the map. 
    Rainbow colors also misrepresents sequential or diverging quantitative data with qualitative colors.

    3. List and describe 2-3 different thematic map types
    a. Choropleth maps use different shades of one color to convey quantity in terms of intensity of color. 
       An example of a choropleth map is the number of crime reports grouped by San Francisco neighborhood.
    b. Hexbin is a less detailed choropleth map and dot density map where quantity is generally symbolized by a hexagon and is not limited by geographic boundaries. 

    4.What type of data is appropriately respresented by a sequential color scheme? What about a diverging color scheme?
    A sequential color scheme is best used for quantitative data and shows the range of maximum to minimun data represented by the darkest to lightest color (or vice versa). 
    A diverging color scheme is best used with to show how far apart the data is from a set point or mean. The farther the data is from the mean or set point, the darker the color representing the data.

    5. Can you name any tools (either from the presentation or your web travels) that would be helpful for choosing colors?
    One tool for choosing colors is the following link that shows the color keyword and the corresponding RGB value: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value 
    Another one I have used is a color contrast checker here: https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/

CORS and working with external data

    6. In your own words, describe why web map developers have to think about CORS.
    Web map developers consider CORS because when the origin from a web application does not match access control origin from another web application, the web map won't load. 
    Map developers will need to decide if they want to start their own server or try other methods of 
    
    7. What is the concept of "separation of concerns?"
    Separation of concerns is a concept where your code is separated by programming language, for example, keeping different files for your javascript, CSS and HTML. 
    It is a method of organization, similar to labeling your baking ingredients.
